update Kosaraju's Algorithm (#4560)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: content/6_Advanced/SCC.mdx

<Resources>
	<Resource source="CPH" title="17 - Strong Connectivity" />
	<Resource source="Wikipedia" title="Kosaraju's Algorithm" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kosaraju%27s_algorithm" />
	<Resource source="TC" title="Kosaraju's Algorithm for SCCs"
	url="https://www.topcoder.com/thrive/articles/kosarajus-algorithm-for-strongly-connected-components"/>
</Resources>

## Explanation
Kosaraju's algorithm is an efficient method for finding the strongly connected components (SCCs) of a directed grpahs. The algorithm works in two main phase. In first phase, it performs the DFS on the original graphs $G$ and record the exit time (i.e. reversed topological sort of graph $G$).

> In the second phase, the graph is transposed, meaning all the edges are reversed. A new DFS is performed, but this time it processes nodes in the order defined by the topological sort from the first phase. By reversing the edges and processing nodes in this specific order, each DFS run in this phase will identify all vertices of one SCC before moving to the next SCC. This is because in the transposed graph, the SCCs are still strongly connected, and the exit times help in isolating them during the DFS.

Reviewer: ``` This is because in the transposed graph, the SCCs are still strongly connected, and the exit times help in isolating them during the DFS.```

can you run a quick proof/example why?

Author: because in transposed graph the reachability will not change and the exit times we calculated from first dfs will help to process one entire SCC in second dfs before moving to another SCC.
For Proof : TopCoder Blog

Reviewer 2: "TopCoder Blog" can you, like, actually give the url 💀

Author: https://www.topcoder.com/thrive/articles/kosarajus-algorithm-for-strongly-connected-components

Reviewer: can you include a brief explanation yourself in addition to linking the blog?

Author: The strongly connected components (SCCs) are preserved in the transposed graph because reversing the edges of a strongly connected component does not change the fact that every vertex can reach every other vertex in the same component. This is based on the definition of an SCC: a maximal subgraph where every vertex is reachable from every other vertex in the subgraph. When we transpose the graph, all paths within each SCC are reversed. For example, if there was a path from A to B in the original graph, in the transposed graph there will be a path from B to A. So if every vertex could reach every other vertex in the original SCC, they can still reach each other in the transposed graph, just in reverse. The exit times recorded in the first phase are crucial in isolating SCCs in the second phase. In the first phase, we do a DFS on the original graph and record the exit times of the vertices, pushing them onto a stack as we finish processing them. This ensures that the vertices are in order of their completion times, with the vertex that finishes last (having the highest exit time) on top of the stack. 

In the second phase, we process the vertices in the order defined by this stack, which means we process them in decreasing order of their exit times. The vertex with the highest exit time is likely to be in a “sink” SCC in the transposed graph, meaning it can only be reached by other vertices but has no outgoing edges that leave its SCC. When we start a DFS from this vertex in the transposed graph we will explore all vertices in its SCC before we reach any vertex outside of it. This is because all vertices in the SCC are mutually reachable and the DFS will fully explore this strongly connected subgraph before exiting. By processing the vertices in this order we ensure that each DFS in the second phase is confined to a single SCC. Once all vertices in one SCC are processed we move to the next highest exit time vertex that hasn’t been visited yet and start the process for the next SCC.

Author: will it work for the "WHY" part?

Reviewer 3: Not sure if this is just me, but some parts of this explanation feel wordy (?)
Overall, content looks fine though 👍 

Like
> The strongly connected components (SCCs) are preserved in the transposed graph because reversing the edges of a strongly connected component does not change the fact that every vertex can reach every other vertex in the same component. This is based on the definition of an SCC: a maximal subgraph where every vertex is reachable from every other vertex in the subgraph. When we transpose the graph, all paths within each SCC are reversed. For example, if there was a path from A to B in the original graph, in the transposed graph there will be a path from B to A. So if every vertex could reach every other vertex in the original SCC, they can still reach each other in the transposed graph, just in reverse.

could probably be reworded as:
> The transposed graph will have the same sccs as the original because reversing an edge doesn't change the reachability between two nodes. Since each scc is maximal and disjoint, reverse edges don't break any connections in the original graph. [example]

Author: Okay I will try to make it a bit concise

Author: Done.
Can you check it once @ryanchou-dev

<Resources>
	<Resource source="CPH" title="17 - Strong Connectivity" />
	<Resource source="Wikipedia" title="Kosaraju's Algorithm" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kosaraju%27s_algorithm" />
	<Resource source="TC" title="Kosaraju's Algorithm for SCCs"
	url="https://www.topcoder.com/thrive/articles/kosarajus-algorithm-for-strongly-connected-components"/>
</Resources>

## Explanation
Kosaraju's algorithm is a highly efficient method for identifying the strongly connected components (SCCs) of directed graphs. The process unfolds in two main phases.

> In the first phase, the algorithm performs a depth-first search (DFS) on the original graph to determine the exit times of vertices, akin to creating a topological sort. As each vertex finishes processing, it is pushed onto a stack. This stacking ensures that, in the next phase, nodes are processed in the order of their decreasing finish times. This order is crucial for effectively identifying the SCCs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the first phase, the algorithm performs a depth-first search (DFS) on the original graph to determine the exit times of vertices, akin to creating a topological sort. As each vertex finishes processing, it is pushed onto a stack. This stacking ensures that, in the next phase, nodes are processed in the order of their decreasing finish times. This ordering will be used in the second phase.
```

<Resources>
	<Resource source="CPH" title="17 - Strong Connectivity" />
	<Resource source="Wikipedia" title="Kosaraju's Algorithm" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kosaraju%27s_algorithm" />
	<Resource source="TC" title="Kosaraju's Algorithm for SCCs"
	url="https://www.topcoder.com/thrive/articles/kosarajus-algorithm-for-strongly-connected-components"/>
</Resources>

## Explanation

> In the first phase, the algorithm performs a depth-first search (DFS) on the original graph to determine the exit times of vertices, akin to creating a topological sort. As each vertex finishes processing, it is pushed onto a stack. In the next phase, nodes are processed off the stack in the order of their decreasing finish times. This ordering will be used in the second phase.

Reviewer: ```akin to creating a topological sort```
Explain the difference between this and toposort. They both create an ordering, but its not the same.

Author: It is just the reverse of top_sort

Author: mentioned about exit time

> In the second phase, the algorithm conducts another DFS, this time on the transposed graph, where all edges are reversed. The DFS processes nodes according to the order defined by the stack from the first phase. By reversing the edges and following this specific order, each DFS run in this phase can identify all vertices of one SCC before moving on to the next. This ensures that the SCCs are accurately and efficiently determined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the second phase, the algorithm conducts another DFS, this time on the transposed graph, where all edges are reversed. The DFS processes nodes according to the order defined by the stack from the first phase. By reversing the edges and following this specific order, each DFS run in this phase can identify all vertices of one SCC before moving on to the next. 
```

> We know that the transposed graph will have the same SCCs as the original because reversing an edge doesn't change the reachability within the two components. Since each SCC is maximal and disjoint, reversing edges doesn't break any connections in the original graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We know that the transposed graph will have the same SCCs as the original because reversing an edge doesn't change the reachability within the two components. Since each SCC is maximal and disjoint, reversing edges doesn't break any undirected connections in the original graph.
```

> During the second DFS, we process the vertices in the order determined by the stack from the first phase. This ensures that we start with the vertex that finished last in the initial DFS, which is guaranteed to be part of an SCC with no outgoing edges to other SCCs — essentially making it a "sink" in the transposed graph.

Reviewer: ```essentially making it a "sink" in the transposed graph.```
Explain what a sink is. Not everyone has learned flows.

Author: added a definition and a link

> By processing the vertices in this specific order, we fully explore all vertices within the current SCC before moving on to the next one. SCCs are maximal subgraphs where every vertex can reach every other vertex within the same subgraph, so the DFS will traverse through all nodes in an SCC, isolating it completely. Once the entire SCC is processed, we move to the next highest exit time vertex that hasn’t been visited yet, ensuring that each SCC is handled independently and thoroughly.

Reviewer: ```CCs are maximal subgraphs where every vertex can reach every other vertex within the same subgraph```
This definition could be explained earlier.

Author: it already has a glimpse of it in line 37 
"Since each SCC is maximal and disjoint"

Reviewer: properly define it

Author: done..

> By processing the vertices in this specific order, we fully explore all vertices within the current SCC before moving on to the next one. SCCs are maximal subgraphs where every vertex can reach every other vertex within the same subgraph, so the DFS will traverse through all nodes in an SCC, isolating it completely. Once the entire SCC is processed, we move to the next highest exit time vertex that hasn’t been visited yet, ensuring that each SCC is handled independently and thoroughly.

Reviewer: ```ensuring that each SCC is handled independently and thoroughly.```
?

Author: added some light to it

> Refer to the TopCoder resource posted [here](https://www.topcoder.com/thrive/articles/kosarajus-algorithm-for-strongly-connected-components).

Reviewer 2: refer to it for what?

Author: Visualization

<Resources>
	<Resource source="CPH" title="17 - Strong Connectivity" />
	<Resource source="Wikipedia" title="Kosaraju's Algorithm" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kosaraju%27s_algorithm" />
	<Resource source="TC" title="Kosaraju's Algorithm for SCCs"
	url="https://www.topcoder.com/thrive/articles/kosarajus-algorithm-for-strongly-connected-components"/>
</Resources>

## Explanation

> Kosaraju's algorithm is a highly efficient method for identifying the strongly connected components (SCCs) of directed graphs. The process unfolds in two main phases.

Reviewer 2: no need for this

Author: removed.

In the first phase, the algorithm performs a depth-first search (DFS) on the original graph to determine the exit times of vertices, akin to creating a topological sort. As each vertex finishes processing, it is pushed onto a stack. In the next phase, nodes are processed off the stack in the order of their decreasing finish times. This ordering will be used in the second phase.

In the second phase, the algorithm conducts another DFS, this time on the transposed graph, where all edges are reversed. The DFS processes nodes according to the order defined by the stack from the first phase. By reversing the edges and following this specific order, each DFS run in this phase can identify all vertices of one SCC before moving on to the next. This ensures that the SCCs are accurately and efficiently determined.

> **Reason:** The transposed graph will have the same SCCs as the original because reversing an edge doesn't change the reachability between two nodes. Since each SCC is maximal and disjoint, reversing edges doesn't break any connections in the original graph.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We know that the transposed graph will have the same SCCs as the original because reversing an edge doesn't change the reachability between two nodes. Since each SCC is maximal and disjoint, reversing edges doesn't break any connections in the original graph.
```

> We know that the transposed graph will have the same SCCs as the original because reversing an edge doesn't change the reachability between two nodes. Since each SCC is maximal and disjoint, reversing edges doesn't break any connections in the original graph.

Reviewer 2: > reversing an edge doesn't change the reachability between two nodes

misleading

Author: It's Ryan's suggestion from the previous commit, it's true in fact.

Reviewer 2: a -> b
a <- b
say that again

Author: I am sure we didn't mean that. It's actually the "reachability between the two SCC components" does not change.
Sorry for misleading.

> During the second DFS, we process the vertices in the order determined by the stack from the first phase. This ensures that we start with the vertex that finished last in the initial DFS, which is guaranteed to be part of an SCC with no outgoing edges to other SCCs—essentially making it a "sink" in the transposed graph.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
During the second DFS, we process the vertices in the order determined by the stack from the first phase. This ensures that we start with the vertex that finished last in the initial DFS, which is guaranteed to be part of an SCC with no outgoing edges to other SCCs — essentially making it a "sink" in the transposed graph.
```

By processing the vertices in this specific order, we fully explore all vertices within the current SCC before moving on to the next one. SCCs are maximal subgraphs where every vertex can reach every other vertex within the same subgraph, so the DFS will traverse through all nodes in an SCC, isolating it completely. Once the entire SCC is processed, we move to the next highest exit time vertex that hasn’t been visited yet, ensuring that each SCC is handled independently and thoroughly.

> For a visual representation that clarifies this process, please refer to [this guide](https://www.topcoder.com/thrive/articles/kosarajus-algorithm-for-strongly-connected-components).

Reviewer 2: just say "refer to the topcoder resource posted"

Author: done.

In the second phase, the algorithm conducts another DFS, this time on the transposed graph, where all edges are reversed. The DFS processes nodes according to the order defined by the stack from the first phase. By reversing the edges and following this specific order, each DFS run in this phase can identify all vertices of one SCC before moving on to the next. This ensures that the SCCs are accurately and efficiently determined.

> We know that the transposed graph will have the same SCCs as the original because reversing an edge doesn't change the reachability between two componets. Since each SCC is maximal and disjoint, reversing edges doesn't break any connections in the original graph.

Reviewer 2: uh
i don't think this means what you think it means
perhaps you meant "within" instead of "between"?
also typo lol

Author: my bad

Author: updated

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

> const int N = 1e5 + 1;

Reviewer 2: is +1 needed

Author: Yes, I am using 1-indexed

// adj_t is the transpose of adj
std::vector<int> adj[N], adj_t[N];
std::vector<int> order;
std::vector<int> vis(N), id(N);

void dfs1(int v) {
	vis[v] = true;

> 	for (auto u : adj[v]) {

Reviewer 2: please don't use auto

Author: done

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

const int N = 1e5 + 1;

// adj_t is the transpose of adj
std::vector<int> adj[N], adj_t[N];
std::vector<int> order;
std::vector<int> vis(N), id(N);

> // calculates the order in which nodes are processed (topological sort)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// calculates the order in which nodes are processed 
```
its not the same as toposort

```cpp
#include <bits/stdc++.h>

const int N = 1e5 + 1;

// adj_t is the transpose of adj
std::vector<int> adj[N], adj_t[N];
std::vector<int> order;
std::vector<int> vis(N), id(N);

void dfs1(int v) {
	vis[v] = true;
	for (int u : adj[v]) {
		if (!vis[u]) { dfs1(u); }
	}
	order.push_back(v);
}

> void dfs2(int x, int comp) {

Reviewer 3: could you add a couple comments describing dfs1/2

Author: done.

	<Resource source="CPC" title="7 - Graphs 1" url="07_graphs_1" />
	<Resource source="CP2" title="4.2.9 - Finding SCCs"/>
	<Resource source="Wikipedia" title="Tarjan's SCC Algorithm" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarjan%27s_strongly_connected_components_algorithm" />
	<Resource source="TC" title="Tarjan's Algorithm for SCCs"

> 	url="https://www.topcoder.com/thrive/articles/tarjans-algorithm-for-strongly-connected-components"/>

Reviewer 2: is this necessary

Author: > is this necessary

well ig maybe/maybe not. Firstly I was going to link the dpv but I don't know how to do that. And afterwards I just forgot about it.

Reviewer 2: yeah i'd remove it

Author: Done
